[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So it's taking your CSS,
putting it into a JavaScript
module and then adding that into the link,
adding all of the-
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, so,
I see where you going.
>> Speaker 1: I'm confused what
the advantage of this is on that one.
>> Kent C Dodds: Let me
explain how this works, so.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, and by the way,
we can now get rid of that.
And it totally puts
the links up at the top and
the scripts at the bottom,
just like where it should be.
But, yeah, so this is how it works.
And first off, there's a loader portion.
What this is doing is it's taking some
configuration and returning a function.
And the function is a loader, so loaders,
they're simple as a function that takes
some source code and
returns the resulting code.
Whatever that is, it doesn't even have to
be code, it doesn't have to be a string,
it could be an object,
it could be anything.
And so in this scenario, it's saying,
give me a loader that's going to take all,
like any file that comes through it is
going to go first through the CSS loader,
and then whatever it needs to do
to become a JavaScript module.
So, the CSS loaders,
it's not just taking the string and
making it a JavaScript module.
It's also resolving all the URLs for
images and
creating a base64 string for small images
and taking care of fonts and stuff.
And so once it's all done, then the
ExtractTextPlugin will take that module
and take the CSS and
stick it into a styles module.
Or, yeah, our CSS file.
And then the plugin,
the ExtractTextPlugin, well, that, sorry,
I kinda got ahead of myself.
The plugin is what's responsible for
taking those modules,
and making a file out of them and
removing them from the bundle.
So, now the string and
all the other object portions of the CSS
are no longer actually in the bundle.
Webpack doesn't bundle those
because the plugin removes them.
And so, yeah, to answer,
I think the question you were gonna ask
is why wouldn't you always see this?
Is that maybe what you're gonna ask, or?
>> Speaker 1: Kind of, I'm looking at this
from a perspective or historical use,
lots of Gulp and Less, and
Webpack is seeming more and
more opinionated on how
everything needs to happen.
>> Kent C Dodds: Sure.
>> Speaker 1: And, it's great for
JavaScript, fine,
I'm having a hard time making that
transition to saying that I also want
Webpack now to handle all of my CSS.
And if it's already in Less, then there's
another transition that's happening there.
So I was just curious as to what
the advantage was if there was one for
performance or anything?
I mean-
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, yeah, so
it's not necessarily
a performance advantage.
And once you use the ExtractTextPlugin,
[COUGH] it's also not
a performance disadvantage, it's kind
of the same as far as performance goes.
And the benefit that you get is
explicitness in dependencies.
So, with Gulp and Grant,
building your CSS,
I should have talked about this
a little bit earlier, but.
Well, just to kind of think
about it holistically.
You have components, whether they be
Angular components or React components or
Backbone views, or whatever.
Those things consist of three very,
very important things.
The markdown for them,
whether it be JSX or HTML or
whatever, the CSS used to style them and
the JavaScript used to control behavior.
If you don't have one
of those three things,
then that component is worthless, right?
So, they are, they are coupled.
It's impossible to get away from
the idea that they're coupled.
A lot of people were used to thinking them
like separation of concerns, but it's not
at all separation of concerns concept,
it's more of a separation of technologies.
And that's where React comes in,
they're like yeah,
why not put your markdown
right in the JavaScript file?
Not a big deal, right?
And in fact,
it's got a lot of power to it as well.
And now there's the CSS and
JS movement that's yeah,
why not put your CSS in there?
Because they're already coupled,
just marry them.
And so, yeah, one of the really nice
things that you get from Webpack as
treating these things as modules, is now
you can make, you can make this coupling
explicit, and make these dependencies, so
that you can perform analysis on them.
But even more important in my mind is
they're associated together in code,
and in your brain when
you look at the code.
>> Speaker 1: Is the CSS getting directly
associated with the specific JavaScript in
HTML that you're needing other than what
you're putting into your Webpack file?
>> Kent C Dodds: Good question, so I
mentioned I wasn't going to talk about CSS
modules, but that's one solution
to kind of enforce this.
And so, [COUGH] and
I used to use CSS modules a lot.
I don't use it quite as
much at all anymore, but
one cool thing about CSS modules, all that
you really have to do to turn this on
is in your loader,
you can say modules = true, I think.
Or you can also provide this as an object
where the name, I think, is CSS, and
the query: .
Something like that,
you'll have to look in the docs.
But with that kind of configuration,
then you can start writing
your CSS, well, actually,
this is valid CSS modules.
So, I have this toggle-graph.
And now I can actually import toggleGraph.
And what the value of toggleGraph
will be is the class name that is
actually generated.
So here, we'll say from.
And so now, I can use this somewhere,
if I was creating a class or
something, I could say toggleGraph.
And then just parse it,
and now that dependency,
not only is it explicit in the sense
that I'm importing you, but
it's also explicit in the sense that
I'm importing something from you.
Yeah, super, super powerful.
I really like the CSS and JS movement, but
if you're not doing that, do CSS modules.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: So, Angular 2,
you can now import or
actually just write your CSS inline.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Is this
extracting it from that, or
does it still have to be in a CSS file?
>> Kent C Dodds: I'm not sure, actually.
I imagine that there will be a solution
for it, because enough people are gonna
be doing that,
that they want to solve this problem.
But I expect that right now,
it's still a problem to be solved.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, cuz when you
say extract text, it's like, yeah,
it's like extracting it from-
>> Kent C Dodds: It's extracting it from
the bundle.
They probably shouldn't have called it
that, because that's like calling it based
off of how it's implemented,
which isn't really right?
Probably should have called based
on what it does for the user.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: So,
this might be an artifact of what
we're just talking about, but
looking at those two files.
Styles.app.css, contains
all of styles.vendor.css,
plus the extra toggle stuff.
>> Kent C Dodds: That's not
what I'm seeing in mine.
So, maybe we can look at it later and
see maybe there's something different.
>> Speaker 4: This is
from your extract CSS.
>> Kent C Dodds: So you just
checked out the branch and ran it?
That is interesting.
Well, maybe there's a bug in here,
and I'll fix it.
Meet up with me after,
we'll figure it out.
I'll make sure that it's
working when you all go home.
But yeah, it doesn't do that normally.
[LAUGH] Okay, cool,
yeah, another question?
>> Speaker 5: Did you answer the question,
can we have two ExtractTextPlugins for
both SASS and CSS?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, good question.
So, I haven't tried this,
but I have had multiple
loaders for CSS, and
doing something like this.
If you were to do exactly what I just
did where you copy one and paste it,
where you have two loaders that have
a test that matched the same file,
what you're gonna have is double loading,
and that can do some really weird things.
So, it probably would break.
So yeah, you want to make sure
that if you are double loading,
that's not necessarily a problem.
For example,
if you wanted to use the eslint loader,
then you could do this, that would
totally work and be totally fine.
Probably better to just do this instead,
have it run through eslint and
then the babel loader.
But yeah, you could probably have one was
like .css and a .sass, or whatever.
And then that would go through the,
well, actually,
you'd have a couple loaders here, and
one of them would be the SASS loader, and
the other would be CSS.
And then that would be loaders.
>> Speaker 4: Other way around,
[INAUDIBLE]
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kent C Dodds: Yes, you're right,
other way around.
Don't look at the man behind the curtain,
yeah, be something like this.
I expect, yeah, good question.
>> Kent C Dodds: So, yeah, and Scott L is
asking if anything would be in vendor?
And yeah, this has all of the common
CSS for like to do in MVC apps,
I mean MP4 that we had before.
So, it basically has
the content of this file.
It's pretty much,
I think that's all that it has,
based off of our entry, where the vendor,
it's just that one file.